(WAVES CRASHING)
(GURGLING, GROWLING)
(GROWLING STOPS)
MAN: Watch your ranks.
Watch your files.
(MAN SHOUTS)
MAN: To the right!
(WALKERS GROWLING)
(METAL CLANGING)
(WALKERS GURGLING AND GROWLING)
(INDISTINCT SHOUTING)
And halt! Drop!
Archers!
MAN: Retreat!
Right! And march!
Archers, regroup!
(WALKERS GROWLING)
-Formation!
-And halt!
(WALKERS GROWLING)
MAN: Spears!
(GROWLING CONTINUES)
(MAN SHOUTS)
MAN: Thrust!
(SPEARS REND)
(GROWLING)
(WALKERS GROWLING)
-(MAN SHOUTS)
-Halt!
WOMAN: Open ranks!
(GRUNTING)
-Hold on, Jerry!
-JERRY: I'm tryin', boss.
Back up. Back up.
MICHONNE: It's about to get real,
y'all. Everyone, steady.
(WALKERS GROWLING)
Fan out!
(INDISTINCT SHOUTING)
MICHONNE: Hey!
Stay in your formations!
Remember your trainin'!
(GROWLING CONTINUES)
(SCREAMS)
On me.
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
(INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS)
LUKE: Weirdest thing
you ever pulled outta
one of these ghost ships, go.
Oh, that would definitely be
the crate full
of hot-dog trophies.
Is that a euphemism?
What are you talkin' 'bout?
-(CHUCKLES) No.
-(CHUCKLES)
Literally trophies
shaped like dancing hot dogs.
-LUKE: Okay.
-I mean, I guess they...
They sorta looked euphemistic.
-Okay.
-(BOTH CHUCKLE)
-Do you need help with that?
-Um, no...
You look like
you need a strong woman
to help you with that...
among other things.
I mean, y-yes, please.
(CHUCKLES) Thank you.
Hey, Jules, um...
(CLEARS THROAT) A-Are you...
Yes, I am flirting with you
a little bit, Luke. Yes.
Good. That's cool.
-As am I with you.
-JULES: Oh. Well, thanks.
Training was worth the trip.
-Yeah, they did good.
-Mm.
Tara would've been proud.
Hm. Hope so.
It's good
to bring the kids also,
let 'em see the ocean
for the first time.
Yeah, I know one idiot
that would've loved this.
JUDITH: (SINGING)
15 miles on the Erie Canal
She's a good ol' worker
and a good ol' pal
15 miles on the Erie Canal
It was a fun day at the river
today, huh, RJ?
-Yeah.
-Let's see what you found.
(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)
AARON: The kids found it
by the estuary.
The river must've
carried it down.
-(STATIC CRACKLES)
-GABRIEL: What does it mean?
Are they back?
-(BUTTON CLICKS)
-We don't know.
But Alexandria should go
on lockdown just in case.
-(STATIC, BUTTON CLICKS)
-Hold on.
We don't have evidence
to justify that.
My official recommendation
is that everyone
should stay on alert
until further notice.
Eyes and ears open.
That's it.
(BUTTON CLICKS, STATIC)
GABRIEL: Copy that.
Over and out.
-(STATIC, BUTTON CLICKS)
-MICHONNE: Sounds good. Over and out.
I appreciate your caution,
and I get it,
but we do not need
to start a panic.
A lot of stuff washed up ashore
from the recent storm.
T-This might not mean anything.
AARON: Or it might mean something.
Look, no one saw
Alpha's herd move out,
so maybe no one saw them
move back in.
But if there's a mask,
maybe there are other signs
of them out there.
We owe it to our people
to be sure.
(SIGHS)
I'll gather a group.
We'll leave in five.
I'm-a hang back for a bit.
I'll catch up.
Tell her not to leave again
without saying goodbye.
All right.
MICHONNE: Okay, let's split up.
You see any sign of them, call it in.
(HORSE WHINNIES)
(GROWLING)
-AARON: Michonne...
-MICHONNE: Yeah.
Are we the good guys?
Why would you ask that?
I think about it a lot.
We're the villains
of someone else's story,
a threat to their survival,
so dangerous,
they threaten to wipe us out.
Makes you wonder sometimes.
I don't give a shit about the Whisperers
or where they stand.
I'm not just talkin'
'bout the Whisperers.
MICHONNE: Anything?
YUMIKO: Nothing so far.
LUKE: Nada over here.
You know, we may never
find an answer to this.
They cover their tracks.
If there's a mask,
there's a reason.
(GROWLING IN DISTANCE)
(AARON SMOOCHES) Come on.
Hey! Shit! Come on!
(GROWLING CONTINUES)
Whoa.
Watch their hands!
Damn it.
Duck!
(GROWLING STOPS)
(PANTING)
Well, that was stupid!
We agreed not
to cross their borders
or to start anything
without a reason!
I lost Rick on a...
If it was them,
you could've died.
And it wasn't them,
and you could've died.
For what?
We've all been acting
like this is normal,
holding our breaths for months.
This isn't normal.
We have to keep our cool,
or they win.
I've been keeping my cool
my whole life.
I've always been the nice guy,
the Good Samaritan.
But the thing is...
Eric is dead.
Jesus is dead.
And I'm goddamn sick
of bein' nice.
Well, good, 'cause nice
never got me anywhere.
But smart did.
They have a nuclear weapon,
and we don't!
It's not about
being nice or good
or anything
but keeping our people alive
and not having them die
over nothing.
Believe me.
I hate this, too.
We should get back before dark.
We didn't find anything.
We're circling back.
YUMIKO: Hold on.
There's something you all should see.
(CANS RATTLE)
It's a campsite.
Couple people.
What am I missin'?
This is not what
we wanted to show you.
LUKE: Campers must've got into a fight
with these walkers, right?
Or maybe the two things aren't connected.
(FLIES BUZZING)
(BUZZING CONTINUES)
Looks like he's been here
for a while.
AARON: A skin.
(EXHALES SHARPLY)
So at least one of 'em has been
on our side of the border
at some point.
Yeah, but when?
And what the hell happened here?
(GATE HINGES CREAK)
MICHONNE: I can see what's
coming unless we stop it.
Fear is dangerous.
It can drive us apart again.
And we're gonna need to squash it
before it starts.
But fear can also keep us safe.
I forgot that on the bridge.
I was telling you to be smart,
not afraid.
I've been thinking about
what you said earlier,
'bout who we've become,
who we are.
And the truth is...
we are the good guys.
And I know
who Rick and Carl were...
and Eric and Jesus, too.
We have to choose
to be the good guys
even when it's hard.
And...
the minute that we start
to question that...
and we lose sight of it...
that's when the answer to that
question starts to change.
And that's scarier
than any skin mask.
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
JUDITH: And the Brave Man
rode the horse very, very far,
trying to lead
the gigantic herd away.
But after a while,
the horse got scared
and ran away,
leaving the Brave Man all alone.
So the Brave Man walked
all by himself to the bridge.
Remember how he built the bridge
for all his friends?
-Yeah.
-Well, the millions of walkers
followed the Brave Man
onto the bridge,
and on the other side,
all his friends were waiting.
The Brave Man
couldn't let the walkers
reach his friends
and hurt them,
so he blew up the bridge,
and all the walkers
fell into the water
and he saved all his friends.
The end.
RJ: Did the Brave Man go to his
friend's house after that?
No. He died
and went to heaven.
RJ: Will he come back someday,
like the walkers?
-JUDITH: No, not like that.
-(SIGHS)
JUDITH: But people, like the Brave Man,
are never really gone anyway.
He lives inside our hearts
and makes us brave, too.
Hey!
Is anybody gonna say hi?
-Hi.
-JUDITH: Hi.
-MICHONNE: Hi!
-Hi, Mom.
MICHONNE: Come on.
(CHUCKLING) Hi. Ooh!
You, too, baby girl. Come here.
(CHUCKLES) I know, I know. Mm!
Hi.
RJ: Mama, I didn't like it
when the Brave Man died.
Why did he do that?
Well...
there are some people
that you love so much
that you would do
anything for them,
just like I would do
anything for you
and for Judith.
And my dad?
Yes. And your dad.
All right. Bring it back in.
Come on.
(GRUNTS)
(LOUD BOOM IN DISTANCE)
-What is that?
-What is it?
MAN: You see that?
(RUMBLING)
-Is that a meteor shower?
-MICHONNE: Get back.
I see it.
Oh, I see it now.
(INDISTINCT TALKING)
WOMAN: What is that?
(INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS)
Michonne! Eugene's on the radio!
He needs to talk to you now.
AARON: The kids found it
by the estuary.
The river must've
carried it down.
What does it mean?
Are they back?
-(BUTTON CLICKS)
-AARON: We don't know.
But Alexandria should go
on lockdown just in case.
-(STATIC, BUTTON CLICKS)
-MICHONNE: Hold on.
We don't have evidence
to justify that.
My official recommendation
is that everyone
should stay on alert
until further notice.
SINGER: That I hung on in there
It must have been
the will of God
I do declare
I'm so thankful
That I hung on in there
It must have been
the will of God
I do declare
(EGG TIMER RINGING)
(RINGING STOPS)
(COCO BURPS)
(MUSIC STOPS)
(COCO CRYING)
(CLICK)
(MUSIC RESUMES)
(COCO COOS)
SINGER: I'm so thankful
That I hung on in there
It must have been
the will of God
I do declare
I'm so thankful
That I hung on in there
It must have been
the will of God
I do declare
Copy that. Over and out.
SINGER: I was being used
For a stepping stone
That I could see
5 minutes and 16 seconds.
Not more, not less.
(CHUCKLES) So if I were
to heat the milk up
for, like, 5 minutes
and 18 seconds...
I have rigged
the kitchen timer to go off
at precisely 5 and 16,
so such a scenario
will not come to pass.
Furthermore, I've taken the liberty
of chartin' her feedin's
and diaper changes.
She is very regular.
-Congratulations.
-(DOOR OPENS AND CLOSES)
ROSITA: Eugene, she's a baby,
not a science experiment.
You can't boil people down
to charts and graphs.
SIDDIQ: No, you know what? I'll take it.
Might not use it all
or, like, any of it.
-But thanks.
-ROSITA: You know, ever since everyone
got those damn
radio setups, Eugene,
this one's been doing
nothing but talking.
You gotta move that thing
outta the house.
Hey, man. Is everything okay?
LYDIA: "Yes, the girl said.
I have reck..."
"Received."
I've gone my whole life
without reading.
I don't see the point
in learning how to do it now.
It'll open
a whole new world for you.
And you're picking it up so quick.
You're a natural.
There's nothin' natural
about this.
(DOOR HINGES CREAK)
GABRIEL: We need the room.
Should she be here for this?
(DOOR HINGES CREAK,
DOOR CLOSES)
(INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS)
NEGAN: Hey, kid.
Everything okay?
Fine.
Exactly the same as it was
20 minutes ago.
What was
the big meeting for?
And why are folks
givin' you the side eye?
Same folks eyein' you.
What have you done in the past
however many years
-you've been here, huh?
-BRANDON: Negan.
Get back to work. Sir.
Hey. You're supposed
to keep your distance.
They're on alert.
Why?
Someone found a skin.
What does "alert" mean?
You've been here longer.
You tell me.
It means watch your back, kid.
(DOOR OPENS)
Hey, boss.
(EXHALES SHARPLY) There you go.
(COOING)
Oh, hm? Trippy, right?
(CHUCKLES) Okay. You chill.
I'll be right back.
(COCO FUSSING)
DANTE: Jefe?
Earth to El Jefe.
(COCO CRYING IN DISTANCE)
There you are, Jef.
Dante. (BREATHING HEAVILY)
What are you doing here?
Dude, your spawn was screamin'
bloody murder.
I could hear it down
in the infirmary. I just...
-(CRYING CONTINUES)
-Oh, shit.
I wanted to make sure
you were cool.
-DANTE: Hey.
-So...
...you cool?
Oh.
Just, you know,
dealing with...
h-household pests and shit.
Good thing I got to town
in time for you to play house.
(CHUCKLES)
I reorganized the meds.
Infirmary's hummin'.
Might've earned my keep
for the day.
-(EXHALES SHARPLY)
-DANTE: Though, who are we kiddin'?
We're like gods
in the apocalypse.
(CHUCKLES)
By the way,
this yellow-alert bidness?
Damn.
(ECHOING) So, what's with
this Whisperers thing?
DANTE: You wanna get a room?
E-Excuse me?
(NORMAL VOICE) The way
you're starin' at my mouth
is makin' me
warm and tingly inside.
(CRYING CONTINUES)
Kiss me already! Shit!
(BOTH CHUCKLE)
So tempting.
Yeah.
But, uh, I need
to get this kid to sleep.
So thank you
for checkin' on me.
Anytime, man.
(CRYING CONTINUES)
Or should I say "god"?
(CHUCKLES)
(CRYING CONTINUES)
(BREATHING SHARPLY)
(LOCK CLICKS, DOOR OPENS)
I'm surprised
you knocked off work early.
I thought you couldn't get
enough of the great outdoors.
It's starting.
Listen, if you've
got something to say,
can you just please
get to the point?
Because I don't have time today.
Seriously.
Aw, Gabey boy, why don't you
just nestle in below me
and let me baby-bird
a little bit of my wisdom
into that pretty little mouth
of yours?
You see, people tend
to get mixed up on
about who they hate.
Yesterday, I was...
public enemy number one.
Now? Well, now I'm the guy
that picks the vegetables
and takes out the trash.
I'm okay with that.
For now, at least.
But until
this whole thing passes,
I'm gonna keep my head down
so people don't move me
from the proverbial
semi-"us" category
to the category of "them."
That's not
what's happening here.
I didn't say it is.
I said that it will.
You see, the boogeyman
just stuck his
gnarly skin-covered mask
out from behind
that closet door,
and people are puttin'
their shittin' pants back on
because pants-shittin'
is definitely happenin'.
Now, with this, uh, alert shit,
all I'm seein' is indecision.
Now, you ask me,
you gotta make 'em feel secure,
even if it's just for show,
sorta like how you have a guy
followin' me around
with a spear all day
in case I suddenly decide
I'm gonna brain somebody
with a tomato.
So you're telling me to lie?
That's your advice?
That's your regurgitated
bird wisdom?
No, not lie.
NEGAN: At most, I'm talkin' about
a little strategic omission,
maybe minor misleading.
Think of it as using the truth
to manipulate.
But, hell,
at the end of the day,
if that's what
keeps people alive,
what's the harm?
(INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS)
Lock the gates for the night!
And let's double up security
at the walls!
-(LOUD BOOM IN DISTANCE)
-(WOMAN GASPS)
(PANTING)
Alexandria to Oceanside!
Come in, Oceanside!
Please, pick up!
RACHEL: Oceanside copies.
This is Rachel.
This is Eugene. I need
to speak with Michonne
and any of the community
leadership at OS right away.
Somethin' of grave importance
is about to happen.
The kids found it
by the estuary.
The river must've
carried it down.
-(STATIC)
-GABRIEL: What does it mean?
Are they back?
WOMAN: Pull!
Crap. Heads up, Kel.
WOMAN: Go further!
That's further!
Heads up behind you, Kel.
-Bring it up...
-Watch your step.
-(GRUNTS)
-All right, let it drop.
Sorry.
(DOG PANTING, BARKS)
(SEAGULLS CRYING)
You ever wonder why
they call bird shit "guano"?
Nah.
I just call it bird shit.
Yeah. Me too.
You know somethin'?
When I worked in a zoo,
birds used to scare
the hell out of me.
Lions, tigers, no problem.
There's a kind of sense
to the way big cats operate.
But ostriches?
Those things'll disembowel you
for lookin' at 'em sideways.
You gotta eat more birds,
show 'em who's boss.
Wonder what seagull
tastes like.
Not chicken.
(CHUCKLES)
(DARYL SMOOCHES)
Hi. Hi, buddy. Hi.
Uh.
No. He just likes you better.
Right? (SMOOCHES)
Hi. Hi.
(DOG PANTING)
Good Dog.
Really?
(BELL CLANGING)
Hey. (WHISTLES)
(INDISTINCT CONVERSATION)
Carol.
(EXHALES SHARPLY)
Hey.
Hey. It's good to see you.
You too. You look good.
Thanks.
Sorry. Um, excuse me.
Yeah.
(CHUCKLING) Did ya miss me?
-Not really.
-I'll take that.
(INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS)
So, how was it out there?
Work till you feel like
your back's gonna break,
then you work some more,
and at the end of the night,
you fall down
and sleep like the dead
on a deck under the stars.
It's the best.
You find what
you were lookin' for?
Oh, then we sailed down south
to this dock
where Oceanside's been
pickin' up letters from Maggie.
Wasn't anything there.
Hasn't been for a while.
It's been a while
since I heard from ya.
I told you, fishing's hard.
That's not what I mean.
You were lookin' for her,
weren't ya?
-No.
-Mm-hmm.
Honestly, no.
Tried to forget
everything that happened.
It was good. And if we're lucky,
we never have to think about
those skin freaks ever again.
What?
(SIGHS) We found
one of their masks today.
Okay.
Michonne just took a group out
looking for signs of 'em.
You wanna go?
No.
I'm only- I'm only here
till the next boat heads out.
All right.
So, what you wanna do?
(ENGINE REVVING)
CAROL: Never been
through here before.
DARYL: Yeah, we just cleared it out
to get around the river border.
Faster.
Hang on.
(ENGINE REVS)
(WALKERS GROWLING)
(GROWLING STOPS)
I had that one.
Well, you're
supposed to call it.
-You didn't call it.
-Don't wanna play
with you anymore
if you cheat every time.
(CHUCKLES) I'm not cheating.
(WALKERS GROWLING)
Watch their hands.
(GROWLING CONTINUES)
(DEER GRUNTS)
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
(HERD GROWLING)
Stop.
Why?
It's one of her borders.
They're walkers.
We can still get the deer.
No, it's too late.
Why are we still respecting
borders we never agreed to
when Alpha isn't even here?
Can we just forget
-about them already?
-It's too late.
(GROWLING CONTINUES)
(SIGHS)
That deer could've fed
200 people.
(GROWLING CONTINUES)
I'm sorry I pissed you off.
I'm sorry
you pissed me off, too.
Well, there's no reason
to start shit if we don't gotta.
After the storm,
we all agreed to that.
That's why it's just as well
that I left.
(SIGHS)
Yeah, I've been
thinkin' about that.
Why don't you come on home now?
I'm a sea dog, man.
Would you get off my ass
before I put you on yours?
Sorry if I didn't want
my best friend
to spend her whole life
on a boat.
Best friend?
What are you, 10?
Whatever.
Should we have
matching bracelets now?
Oh, God, forget it.
No, I could make some
with fisherman's twine.
Decorate 'em.
It'll be really cute
with tiny, little seashells.
Oh, my God. I take it back.
No, what's your favorite color?
Green? Blue?
Black. Definitely black.
I got an idea. Why don't we eat
and not talk?
Should we make
a matching collar for Dog?
(CHUCKLES)
Daryl?
Yeah?
You ever wonder
if this is all there is?
Just run into people,
kill each other until
whoever's left says, "Enough"?
Sometimes I think
we're just survivin'
one fight to the next.
It was like that for you and me
before all this.
Yep.
There's got to be people
out there like us.
Right?
I get what Maggie's doin'
with Georgie.
I do.
Go out on the boat with me
this time.
Just run away together?
Be pirates. Heck yeah.
Nah. Cooped up in those
little cabins all day?
That's not me.
Screw the boat. We'll take your
bike and go out on the road.
Better.
Head out west.
New Mexico.
What the hell's in New Mexico?
People who weave bracelets.
No more fightin'.
Just get on the bike and go,
see who's left.
Sounds good to me.
(CHUCKLES)
(LOUD BOOM IN DISTANCE)
(FLAMES CRACKLING)
MAGNA: This is crazy.
We can't do this.
We don't have a choice.
If we get caught on
their side of the border,
-that's it, that's war!
-It's a fire. Fires spread.
It could burn through
our hunting grounds.
-Or take out Oceanside.
-Michonne, are we doin' this?
-We gotta go now.
-Let's go. Come on.
(INDISTINCT SHOUTING)
We start on the outside,
push in!
(INDISTINCT SHOUTING)
(METAL CREAKING)
It's gonna be a long night, son.
-A long, hot night.
-Cut through here!
(INDISTINCT SHOUTING)
AARON: As soon as you clear
your area, move to the ends!
Keep digging!
We've gotta get this done
before the fire jumps spine!
-Come on!
-(GRUNTS) God damn it.
-(GRUNTS)
-YUMIKO: Magna.
-(GRUNTING)
-Magna.
-YUMIKO: Magna!
-MAGNA: What?
-You're spinning out.
-I'm fine.
No, you're not. What's wrong?
Look around.
(WALKERS GROWLING)
(GRUNTS)
(INDISTINCT SHOUTING)
-Where we going?
-Go up to the fire line!
-Grab your bucket!
-Come on!
AARON: All right. Everybody
clear back! Clear back!
We need to back-burn
the stray fuel
by the control line
so the fire can't spread.
YUMIKO: Let's light it up!
(INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS)
(COUGHS)
Yo, boss.
Not your boss, Jerry.
Pace yourself maybe?
It's gonna take a minute.
(GRUNTS) Fire was the beginning
of the end for the Kingdom.
We're not letting that happen
to Oceanside!
-(COUGHING)
-You okay, boss?
Let me take point
in this round, okay?
(WHEEZING)
CYNDIE: I'm out of water.
DARYL: I'm out.
(WALKERS GROWLING)
MAN: Hey! Walkers coming in!
-On your six!
-Daryl.
MAN: Bring the weapons!
MAGNA: Heads up!
MAN: Yeah, yeah, we're good.
(WALKERS GROWLING)
MAN: How many we got?
(INDISTINCT SHOUTING)
WOMAN: Come on!
MAN: Let's stay on the fire!
Put it out!
-WOMAN: Walkers!
-MAN: There's too many!
(INDISTINCT SHOUTING)
(GROWLING CONTINUES)
WOMAN: Lead them to the fire!
(GROWLING)
WOMAN: Come on! Go, go!
(INDISTINCT SHOUTING)
WOMAN: Hurry! (INDISTINCT SHOUTING)
MAN: Here!
-COUGHING)
-AN: Watch your back!
(GRUNTING)
(INDISTINCT SHOUTING)
-(BODY THUDS)
-(PANTING)
-MAN: There's too many of 'em!
-(TREE CREAKING)
Everyone, stay clear of that tree!
It's gonna fall any minuto!
(WALKERS GROWLING)
Get back!
(INDISTINCT SHOUTING)
(WALKERS GROWLING)
(GROWLING)
(INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS)
(COUGHING)
(RATTLING)
MICHONNE: Come on, come on!
Pack up and move!
AARON: Let's go, let's go!
Eugene! Let's go!
-I just need 20 minutes.
-You get zero!
-We gotta go now.
-Ten. Just ten.
We should excavate and transport
this satellite to our vehicles.
I believe there may be
invaluable technological
implications for our communities
if I'm able to retrieve
any of the useful bits
from inside. I'm not askin'.
Oh, my God! Yumiko, Luke, Magna!
Everybody, come on.
We're helpin' with the satellite.
Five minutes and out.
(INDISTINCT TALKING)
Hey, uh, Eugenius.
What about radiation, man?
Uh, there's radiation
all around us.
Certainly, there's
radiation from space,
but every one of us is already
infected with some kinda nasty
that changes us into epidermis
Epicureans at point of RIP.
I mean, I don't understand
what you're talkin' about.
I got it, man. No one's gettin'
superpowers today. I'm on it.
Cuttin' into my 10 minutes.
All right.
-(MAN COUGHING)
-We made the right choice.
Let's not push our luck.
Well, maybe this
buys us some goodwill.
This helps them, too.
We helped our people.
That's enough good for me for now.
Where are Carol and Daryl?
You still wanna run away together?
Yeah.
Tomorrow.
Look, I need you to stay.
Just think about it.
Otherwise, I'm gonna have to
punch holes in all them boats.
(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)